# Cameras

To take a picture, an electronic device has to have a CPU (Brain's processing) that demands that actions get taken. What are these actions? It starts with loading up the camera program which is in the solid state drive (Long-term memory) into the RAM (Short-term memory). That camera program activates the camera(s) (eyes), a light sensor (Retina Visual Cortex) measures the brightness of the environment, and a laser range finder (Retina Visual Cortex) measures the distance to the objects in front of the camera. Based on these measurements, the CPU and the software it's running set the electronic shutter to limit the amount of light. At the same time, a miniature motor moves the camera lens forward or backward to get the objects in focus. With a graphics processor, the image is rendered on to the screen. Depending on the brightness, the user or the software depending on the setting will turn on the high-power Flash LED (rod cells in the retina which act better in low-light than cone cells). When the picture is taken, the image is rendered on the screen once again, and a copy is sent to the SSD.

In many ways, pretty obviously, the camera resembles the human eye. The Cornea (outer lens) takes a wide angle of light and focuses it. This light is limited by the iris (inner lens), which can take many shapes by way of the muscles around it. The focused image travels through the eye and is layed on the retina, a massive grid of cone cells and rod cells which absorb the photons of light and output electrical signals which go to the brain for processing. Rod cells sense black and white variations of all color, while cone cells sense red, green, and blue. Opsin is a protein that absorbs light variations (Black to white), while photopsin is a protein that absorbs a specific color of RGB and its variations. We have more green rods and it has been shown that we have evolved to have these types and amounts of rods. For example, the mantis shrimp has the most cone cell types (16). Quite counter intuitively, they don't see more colors than we do, instead they see less range in color while having more frames per seconds to do some speed killing. It is understandable that combining different shades of only 3 colors could take more computations than combining less range in more colors. Maybe I am just saying nonsense, but that is the way I understood it.

Just like the human eye, cameras have layers of lenses surrounded by miniature motors to focus on objects and set the right amount of light, while they have a sensor at the back, just like the retina, which handles the electronic shutter. That image sensor is constituted of a bunch of pixels that take RGB just like our eyes. The basic mechanic of the light sensing is like a solar panel, where the photons are transformed into electrical signals or voltage. The human eye still has much more mega pixels than cameras in most cases as they have around 126 mega cells, while my cameras for drone V2 are probably going to be 2 MP cameras.

Another thing to consider is CCD (Charge-Coupled Device) vs CMOS (Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor) sensors. CCD takes one row at a time, one pixel at a time and passes it through one photons to voltage converter which then goes through an ADC to become digital. On the other hand CMOS, has that process integrated on each pixel. Here is the steps both steps kind of take: light to charge conversion, charge accumulation, transfer, charge to voltage conversion, and finally, amplification. CCD is used for global shutter, taking every pixel getting its voltage and then displaying the full picture. On the other hand, CMOS does the process on a line by line basis, but the input changes too fast, so we can see a rolling shutter. I am thinking a CMOS sensor for its speed that gets combined with the reliability of CCD would be best. But if I have to choose, I am probably taking CCD, although CMOS use less power which is great.

To pick a camera for my drone, I should consider cost and how light it is, automatic control of light and focus or an easily codable way of using the motors, a good amount of MPs, and maybe trade off some color vision or lighting for frame rate as this is for a drone. I should also look into CCD vs CMOS even more.

[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B7Dopv6kzJA) is the video I watched to get information.
[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZXamWYdUgQ) is a video about CCD vs CMOS.
